Serverless and Application services
        1. Event Driven Architecture
            1.  No constant running or waiting for things
            2.  Producers generate events when something happens
            3.  Clicks, errors, criteria met, uploads, actions
            4.  Events are delivered to consumers
            5.  Actions are taken and the system returns to waiting
            6.  Mature event-driven architecture only consumes resources while handling events (serverless ...)
        1. Lambda Architecture
            1.  Function as a Service
            2.  Event driven invocation (execution)
            3.  Lambda function = piece of code in one lanuage
            4.  Lambda functions use a runtime (e.g. Python 3.6)
            5.  Runs in a runtime environment
            6.  You are billed only for the duration a function runs...(alternative to running compute on EC2)
            7.  Key component of serverless architecture
            8.  When you create a Lambda function you really create a container
            9.  The container contains your code and the runtime environment
            10.  The best practice is to have the code timy and super specialized. And do one single thing.
            11.  Can be written in a large variety of languages
            12.  The runtime matches the language that your code is written.
            13.  Execution role (assign a IAM) to lambda function.  It has permissions to whatever the role allows.
            14.  Highly parallel forms of executions
            15.  Functions can access public internet resources
            16.  Functions can be configure to access private VPC (same level of access of the role)
            17.  Execution Role provides access to AWS services like DynamoDB and S3 for input and output (persistance storage for example)
            18.   Currently - 15 minute execution limit
            19.  New runtime environment every execution - no persistence
            20.  Load data from other services
            21.  Store data to other services (e.g. S3)
            22.  1M free request per month and 400K GB-seconds of compute time per month
        CloudWatchEvents and EventBridge
            1.  They allow you to implement an architecture which can observe if X happens or if something happens at a certain time so Y, the do Z.  X is a supported service which generates an event so it's a porducer of an event.  
            2.  Y can be a certain amount of time or a time periods and this is a specified using the UNIX Chrome format which a a flexible format.
            3.  Event bus for a single AWS account
                 1.  stream service for any supported service inside an AWS account
                2,  it's not a visible thing and not expose to UI
                3.  EventBridge you can create additional buses
            4.  Define rules that match patterns events 
                1.  When they see an event that matches a pattern they deliver event to a target.
            5.  An example of one target is to invoke a Lambda function
            6.  CloudWatch Events and EventBridge have visibility over events generated by supported AWS services within an account.
            7.  They can monitor the default account event bus - and pattern match events flowing through and deliver these events to multiple targets.
            8.  They are also the source of scheduled events which can perform certain actions at certain times of day, days of the week, or multiple combinations of both - using the Unix CRON time expression format.
            9.  Both services are one way how event driven architectures can be implemented within AWS.
        API Gateway
            1.  API Gateway is a managed service from AWS which allows the creation of API Endpoints, Resources & Methods.
            2.  The API gateway integrates with other AWS services - and can even access some without the need for dedicated compute.
            3.  It serves as a core component of many serverless architectures using Lambda as event-driven and on-demand backing for methods.
        Serverless Architecture
            1.  Key to understanding serverless architecture (aside for the fact that there are servers behind the scenes) is that it's not one single thing.  
            2.  Serverless is an architecture but it's more a software architecture than a hardware architecture.
            3.  The goal is to manage few if any servers
            4.  Applications are a collection of small & specialised functions
            5.  Stateless and Emphemeral encironments - duration billing
            6.  Event-driven.. consumption only when being used
            7.  FaaS is used where possible for compute functionality
            8.  Managed services are used where possible
        Simple Notification Service
            1.  The Simple Notification Service or SNS .. is a PUB SUB style notification system which is used within AWS products and services but can also form an essential part of serverless, event-driven and traditional application architectures.
            2.  Publishers send messages to TOPICS
            3.  Subscribers receive messages SENT to TOPICS.
            4.  SNS supports a wide variety of subscriber types including other AWS services such as LAMBDA and SQS.
            5.  Public AWS service - network connectivity with public endpoint.
            6.  Coordinates the sending and delivery of messages
            7.  Messages are <= 256KB payloads
            8.  SNS Topics are the base entity of SNS - permissions and configuration
            9.  A publisher sends messages to a TOPIC
            10.  TOPICS have Subscribers which receive messages
            11.  e.g. ... HTTP(s), Email(JSON), SQS, Mobile Push, SMS Messages & Lambda
            12.  SNS used across AWS for notifications - e.g. CloudWatch and CloudFormation
            13.  Delivery Status (including HTTP, Lambda, SQS)
            14.  Delivery Retries - Reliable Delivery
            15.  HA and Scalable (Region)
            16.  Server Side Encryption
            17.  Cross-Account via TOPIC Policy
        Step Functions
            1.  Step functions is a product which lets you build long running serverless workflow based applications within AWS which integrate with many AWS services.
            2.  State Machines
                1.  Serverless workflow .. START -> STATES -> END
                2.  Startes are THINGS which occur
                3.  Maxium Duration 1 year
                4.  Standard Workflow and Express Workflow
                5.  Startted via API Gateway, IOT Rules, EventBridge, Lambda ....
                6.  Amazon States Language (ASL) - JSON Template
                7.  IAM Role is used for permissions
            3.  States
                1.  Things that occur inside a workflow
                2.  Success and Fail
                3.  Wait -  certain period of time or date and time
                4.  Choice - state which allows the state machine to take a different path depending on the input
                5.  Parallel -  allows to create parallel branches within a state machine.
                6. MAP - accepts a list of things.  Each item that map state performs actions bases on those items
                7. TASK - single a unit of work by a state machine -  can be integration into many services. (Lambda, Batch, DynamoDB, SNS, SQS, Glue, SageMaker, EMR, Step funtions)
            4.  Simple Queue Service
                1.  SQS queues are a managed message queue service in AWS which help to decouple application components, allow Asynchronous messaging or the implementation of worker pools.
                2.  Public, Fully Managed, Highly-Available Queues -  Standard or FIFO
                3.  FIFO guarantee an order - Best Effort - 3K messages per second with batching
                4.  Standard - at least once, no guarantee of order
                5.  Messages up to 256KB in size - link to large data
                6.  Received messages are hidden (Visibility Timeout) 
                7.  then either reappear (retry) or are explicitly deleted
                8.  Dead-Letter queues can be used for problem messages
                9.  ASG can scale and Lambdas invoke based on queue length
                10.  Short (immediate) vs Long (waitTimeSeconds) Polling
                11.  Billed based on 'request'
                12.  Encryption at rest (KMS) and in transit
            5.  Kinesis and Kinesis Firehose
                1.  Kinesis data streams are a streaming service within AWS designed to ingest large quantities of data and allow access to that data for consumers.
                2.  Kinesis is ideal for dashboards and large scale real time analytics needs.
                3.  Kinesis data firehose allows the long term persistent storage of kinesis data onto services like S3
                4.  Kinesis is a scalable streaming service
                5.  Producers send data into a kinesis stream
                6.  Streams can scale from low to near infinite data rates
                7.  Public service and highly available by design
                8.  Streams store a 24-hour moving window of data
                9.  Multiple consumers access data from that moving window
                10.  Kinesis Architecture
                    1.  Kinesis Stream uses shard architecture
                    2.  Kinesis Data record (1MB)
                    3.  Stored (window) 24 Hour Window up to 7 days
            6.  Amazon Cognito
                1.  Authentication, Authorization, and user management
                2.  USER POOLS - sign in and get a JSON Web Token (JWT)
                    1.  User directory management and profiles, sign-up and sign in (customizable web UI), MFA and other security features
                    2.  Can't be used to directly access AWS resources or services
                3.  IDENTITY POOLS Allow you to offer access to Temporary AWS credentials
                    1.  Unauthenticated identities - Guest Users
                    2.  Federal Identities - SWAP Google, Facebook, Twitter, SAML 2.0 and User Pool for short terms AWS Credentials to access AWS Resources
                4.  A user pool is a user directory in Amazon Cognito. With a user pool, your users can sign in to your web or mobile app through Amazon Cognito.
                5.  Your users can also sign in through social identity providers like Google, Facebook, Amazon, or Apple, and through SAML identity providers. Whether your users sign in directly or through a third party, all members of the user pool have a directory profile that you can access through a Software Development Kit (SDK).
                6.  Amazon Cognito identity pools (federated identities) enable you to create unique identities for your users and federate them with identity providers. With an identity pool, you can obtain temporary, limited-privilege AWS credentials to access other AWS services. 










        


